In this section, we are going to discuss questions about inheritance, subclasses and extending builtin
class inheritance or subclasses.
It is one and the same thing of object oriented JavaScript category.
There will be five related questions of this topic.
Inheritance or subleasing is very important concept and often used with object oriented patterns.
With iOS five, there were different ways of inheritance, but in E6 existence is the keyword to inherit
a class.
Inheritance is needed when you have unique or common members.
For example, you as a child have inherited properties from pattern and also you have your own unique
properties, like you have your own height, you have your own colour, you have different properties
on your own as well.
Let me quickly show you a practical example.
I create a class called Child.
I see exchange.
Now, this is the keyword to inherit a class.
I am not creating a parent class.
Rather, I am extending this child class from already available class called string.
Now this is actually a built in class of JavaScript and that we are extending.
That means whatever this string class has, the child class will receive at the same time.
Child class can have its own properties or matters as well.
Let me first of all, just create this class like this and also creating an object of this child only.
Let me pass a string here.
Now, when I pass a string inside of this constructor, this will eventually be passed to the string
class that we will see in a moment when we understand a few other concepts of constructor calling and
the related concepts.
But here, right now, I am passing a string called test string.
Now the string class has one matter called to lower case.
Right.
This is a matter which is of string.
That is, this method belongs to the string class of JavaScript.
But because we have extended this string class to child, that means the object of child class should
have this method.
Let's try this.
I will simply write console.log.
Then I will say object dot to lower case.
Now you see, the list is already populated.
So whatever methods we have with the string class or any string in JavaScript, all those matters now
belong to object as well.
So now object is a child of pattern class called string.
Here let me say to lower case and I will just run the code.
So I'll say node or JS.
That's the file name, right.
So I would say, oh geez, you see the entire string is now in lowercase.
This is the practical way of inheritance.
There are a lot of theories about extending the class.
Then you have a vehicle class or animal class or human class and lot of things.
But when you practically implement, this is a most common way of implementing the inheritance.
But here we are extending the built in class.
So we must see the basic syntax also, which we are discussing in a moment.
But right now I also mentioned that the pattern class has its own properties and matters like this.
Similarly, child can have its own matters or properties as well.
For example, I see a number of characters now.
We do have the length property, but let's say I just want to give a number of characters matter which
belongs to the child class.
Here there will be a string part to it and then at the end you may display console.log.
Then whatever is the length of the string that we want to display.
That's it.
Now here we have the energy.
That is number of character.
This matter belongs to the child class.
Let's try to call that as well.
I'll say object or number of characters and I'm passing, let's say new string here.
Something like this.
So now as you see that the object has to lower case, which is actually a matter of string class, that
is the parent class and the child also has its own matters.
So the child now has patterns, properties or methods.
And child also has its own properties and methods here.
Right.
So let's run this and see whether we get the proper output or not.
So, yes, we do get it.
We have 15.
That is the length of this new string here.
So this is one of the practical example of extending the class.
But here I'm extending a built in class.
Let's now try to see the basic syntax of how do we create or how do we extend the class.
For example, you have the parent class.
I'm writing a constructor.
We have already seen constructor in previous question.
So here I'll say console.log and I'll say Parent constructor call.
Let's a pattern.
That is enough.
Now I'm extending another class LC class child extends parent.
This means the parent is the parent class, of course, and this is the child class.
Now, I do not write anything in the child class, but I straightaway create an object of child.
So I'll say object is equal to new child.
Right?
So here we have the object which is creating an instance of child, but which is extended from pattern.
This means this constructor will be called automatically.
Let's see this.
You see this?
So it means that whatever member you have in the pattern are available or accessible for an object of
the child class.
Let's also try a matter, let's say parent method.
Console log pattern matter.
So this matter is also available because I can say object or pattern method.
That's it.
Let's run this.
Right.
Without any error, it is executing it.
In fact, if you want to pass parameters to the Pattern constructor, you can do that as well, even
by passing the members to the child class.
Let's say pass here.
12.
Right.
This value I want that it should be passed to the Pattern constructor.
I can see a for example and let me also display this.
First of all, I'll say this dot A is equal to A.
That's it.
So now we have a member called E, which I am displaying here.
I said this dart.
Hey.
So we passed the parameter to the child class, but that is passed to constructor of pattern.
Now let's talk about one more situation where you have constructor in the child class as well.
Let me say constructor.
Right.
This also has a for example, or at the moment I don't need any A or B or anything because we want to
have just simple constructor.
No complications at all.
Because I want to discuss one more situation here.
We don't pass anything, right?
Earlier, it was working fine, but now we have added a constructor in the child class.
Now let's see what happens.
It has stopped working.
What is it saying?
It saying that there is a reference that it must call super constructor.
What it says is that if you have a constructor offer child class, then it should explicitly call the
constructor of the parent class first.
Right?
Then only the instance of child less can be in picture.
And for that to call the parent class constructor, you have a keyword call super.
You just put pair of parentheses to call the parent class constructor like this.
Now, if you run, there won't be any issue running the code.
Of course we are trying to display this dot here, which is no values, which is undefined.
Now, in fact, we can pass that parameter.
Also, let me add value here.
Right.
And this you can further pass to the parent class constructor.
You are actually calling the parent class constructor where you are passing the value.
So here I can see E and I put this dot is equal to E, so that's a member which we are trying to refer
in the parent class.
Now you see that here in the new child.
When you pass this as a parameter to the constructor, it actually got passed to the constructor of
child and that is further passed to this constructor of parent by the super keyword.
So super is the keyword which allows you to access parent class members.
For example, this B method I want to access here in child class, let's say we have another method,
child method, right?
So I want to call this pattern class B method in the sea method that is child method.
How will you do that?
Can you see that pattern, dot B method, something like this.
It's not allowed.
Right?
Let's try this first.
I want to call the parent class matter.
So I say parent or P method.
Right.
And let me call the child method here.
Right, let's see what happens.
It gives the add it.
So how will you call the parent class member?
That is matter here you will see super dark matter.
That is parent matter.
Whatever name is I me right now let's try to run the code again.
Now it is running absolutely fine.
So the way we have access, the constructor using the super keyword, we can use the super keyword to
access the method as well in charge.
You can see that super is the keyword which is used to call the super constructor called parent constructor
like this or you call super dark matter right to call parent method are in fact super dot property to
access parent properties.
Right now in this class we have two names of the matter.
That is, we have P method and we have C method.
But what if we have the same name in both the classes?
Let's say here you have p method, the same name you have here in this parent class also now by default,
what it'll do when you say child object dot parent method.
By default it's going to call the very same.
That is the current scope matter.
The object is of child eventually.
So it's going to call this method, not the parent method.
Right?
In case if you want to call the pattern method, again, the super keyword is useful.
So this actually is a process of overriding the matter.
So when it comes to overriding a method, again, you use the super keyword only and you call the method
of pattern class.
Now let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is How can you inherit a class?
We have already seen that if you are using the external keyword, it's going to inherit any class.
Even the JavaScript classes can be inherited.
The second question is what is subleasing now in E6?
When we say inheritance, it is also called as subclass in.
So you should not get confused by two different terms.
Whether somebody refers only subclasses, that's also inheritance only which is implemented using the
extents keyword as we have already seen.
So subclasses is nothing but inheritance.
The third question is what is the purpose of super keyword?
We have already seen that super is the keyword which helps you to access members of the parent class
like this.
You can access a constructor you call a method, or maybe you access a property like this.
The fourth question is how will you override a method?
So to override a method in JavaScript, you use the super keyword, right?
So even though you have same name in parent class, then also you are able to access the parent class
method using the super keyword.
And the fifth question is how can you extend a built in class?
So we have already seen in the beginning that we tried to extend a built in class called string.
We used its own method that is to lower case.
And we also tried to create one more method of child class that is the number of characters and we could
successfully extend the built in class.